9.6 Exercises
9.6.1 Defining terms 

In your own words, define the following terms:
1. Class- a set of instructions to build a specific type of object. It is a basic concept of Object-Oriented Programming 
which revolves around the real-life entities. Class in Java determines how an object will behave and what the object will contain.
2. Object- an instance of the class. An object in OOPs is a self-contained component consists of methods and properties to 
make particular type of data useful.
3. Instantiate- means to call a constructor of a Class which creates an instance or object, of the type of that Class.
4. Instance variables are variables within a class but outside any method. These variables are initialized when the class 
is instantiated. Instance variables can be accessed from inside any method, constructor or blocks of that particular class. 
5. Instance Method reference refers to an instance method of any class. In the below example, we can implement an instance 
methods reference using the class name.
6. Class Variables or static member variables are declared with the static keyword in a class, but outside a method, constructor or a block.
7. Constructor -initializes an object when it is created. It has the same name as its class and is syntactically similar to a method. 
However, constructors have no explicit return type.

9.6.2 Java Scavenger Hunt
1). Class: String
Method Declaration: public boolean endsWith(String suffix)
Sample Usage:
String str = “Hello”;
System.out.println(str.endsWith(“Hello”));
2).  Class: Character
Method Declaration: public static char getDigit(int digit, int radix)
Sample Usage:
Char digitNum = Character.getDigit(15, 16);
System.out.println(digitNum);
3). Class: Runtime
Method Declaration: public static void exit (int status)
Sample Usage: 
System.exit(0);
4). Class: Double
Method Declaration: public static double floor(double a)
Sample Usage:
double value = Math.floor (3.13);
System.out.println(value);
5). Class: Character
Method Declaration: public static boolean isDigit(char ch)
Sample Usage: 
Boolean ch = Character.isDigit(‘3’);
System.out.println(ch);
